Now we're getting our posts here and now we just need to pre-populate our form with the values of
that post.
Now since we're using the template driven approach, this means that we have to do one-way binding on
ngModel here, just using it to register this as a control isn't enough anymore,
we need to give angular the extra information of our default values you want to use and this can be done
by simply wrapping ngModel with square brackets and then we simply refer to the post,
so that post property we have and that must not be private for that
though so let's remove that private decorator,
this was an error,
it should be a public property.
So now we can access that post from within the template
and here, I now access post.title, like this
and the same for the content.
I wrap it with square brackets and then access post.content.
Now if we save this, let's try this out and let's see if we can visit this page and actually see an
added form which holds our default values. For that if I go back to the post list component, let's click
that add it button here
and if I do click it, we actually indeed see new post
and this is a new post. So this is working,
it's pre-populated with our data and we can still change that of course.
Now we just want to make sure that when we submit our post here, we actually do update it and not add it.
For that I'll go to my posts service
and here we don't really have a method for updating the post,
we have one for adding and for deleting but now it's time to add a new one, update post and there I expect
to get an ID of the post which should get updated
and then let's say the post data. You could of course also again get a title and a new content, whatever
you prefer,
let's go with the title and content again to be consistent with add post I guess.
Then again I'll create a new post here that will be of type post and it's a javascript object which
has to have an ID and that will be the ID we're getting here,
it'll also have a title and that's the title we're getting as an argument and a content which is the content
we have as an argument.
Now we need a backend route to send this request to.
So let's go back to our backend, to the app.js file and here maybe below the post route
but the position doesn't really matter,
I'll add another route where I accept a different kind of http request and there are actually two
http requests
you could take when it comes to updating content. You could handle put requests to put a new resource
and completely replace the old one with it
or you take patch to only update a resource, an existing resource with new values and it's up to you
regarding how you want to handle this.
Now I will accept the put request here and I will accept a request which is reaching API/posts
but now important, I also want a dynamic segment here and that will be ID,
so the ID of the post which I want to replace, that is what I'm expecting here.
With that, let's add our normal method which we already know here on the backend
and now we just need to use mongoose to update a resource. For that
let's use the post model again
and here we can actually use the update one method.
Now update one
first of all takes the, well a javascript object which narrows down which one to update
and here
this will simply be identified by an object which has an ID,
note this is of course still _id on the server because in mongodb, our items have their ID
stored in an _id field,
so where that ID is equal to you request params ID, so this ID which is encoded in our url
just as for deleting where we also narrowed it down like this. Now unlike deleting, we don't just pass one
argument,
the second argument is the new object we want to store and
that will be a new post of course,
so let's create a new post here with the new operator or new keyword and that new post will receive
a title which we can get from the request body we're getting.
Now it's of course up to you regarding which data you expect there,
I expect a body where I can extract a title and where I can extract a content,
so really just as we're doing it for creating a new post here. Now we're getting that post data and now
it's this post which I want to save,
so with which I want to update the existing one.
Now let's chain then thereafter to handle the case that this was successful
and here in the callback where I get the result, I will for one print the result here to the console
and as a second step, I want to return a response, so send a response with the status code
200 and some json data where we could simply pass for now,
maybe pass a message where I say update successful.
So now we got our backend route in place, back to the frontend then, it's reachable on this url.
So here in update post, I now want to use the local http service, send a put request, remember because it's a
put route,
we're waiting for put requests here,
so send such a put request to the same url as for deleting basically, so we can just copy that
url from down there,
this is where we want to send our put request.
Of course we will have a payload here though,
put requests take a payload,
the post which we want to use and post ID is just ID here, like this.
So now we're sending a put request,
now let's subscribe to that,
we'll actually get back our response here
and for now, we can simply console log that response.
That of course means we will not update the post locally yet
but let's just see if that works and how we would need to fix it if it doesn't.
So with that let's go back, one issue we can see is if I reload the page, then the content is gone which
makes sense because the post is not loaded into memory,
so that's one argument for actually fetching the post whenever we go to that page.
For now let's fix it by going back and then clicking on edit here
and let's now add an extra exclamation mark and hit save post and,
well not much is happening here,
now why is that?
Well because we of course don't use update post,
instead we just edit a second one right,
this one because we always add posts right now in a post create component,
here we always add new posts.
What do we want to do here is first of all we maybe want to name this on save post because it's actually
now more about saving, not just about adding,
so in the template, we also connect it here with on save posts on the submit event
and then here in on save post, we check the mode and if this mode is equal to create, well then
we will still of course add a post like this, else we want to call this posts service update post and
send our post ID as well as our title and content and we get that of course well in exactly the same
way as we did here,
so we simply pass on form value title and form value content.
Now we're calling update post and now if we save this, go back, edit this post and add a third exclamation
mark and hit save posts,
we get an error here,
method put is not allowed
so that's a cors error.
Let's go back to app.js
and indeed, we're allowing a patch request but not a put request, so let's add put here to the allowed
cors headers on the backend in app.js, save that and try again. Back to messages, edit, add
that third exclamation mark, clear the console maybe and hit save
and now, we don't know right.
Let's go to the server side log and there, doesn't look too good,
looks like we got an error, performing update on the path ID would modify the immutable field ID.
So the problem we actually have here is that on the backend, we tried to update the existing post with
the new post but since I created the post like this, it actually would create a new ID too
and that's not allowed,
we can't replace that ID because that ID is not,
we can't overwrite this for an existing resource. Now we could of course delete the old post and add
a new one,
we can also try setting the ID here
to the ID of the post we're receiving because that post, that incoming body will have an ID because
we're sending the post with that ID,
so let's give that a try.
Let's go back and reload, add it again, add that first exclamation, that third exclamation mark, save
and now this looks better because now we're not trying to generate a new ID,
instead on the backend we're now reusing the existing ID and the update process recognizes this and
therefore it's all right.
So now we updated the post and we can finally see this if we go back and reload that page, here we see
new posts with three exclamation marks and deleting also still works.
So that's all working,
that's all fine,
two things are missing though.
For one, I want to instantly update this in the local array even though we always fetch a new version when
we go back to the page
but I want to update it immediately once we're done with the updating and I also want to make sure that
if we are on that updating page and we reload, we actually load that post again because the ID is still
part of the url.
So we got everything we need and therefore we should implement this feature.